# 0.11.0

## Features

### Webmock Adapter

`httpx` can now be integrated with `webmock`, a popular HTTP requests stubbing library.

```ruby
# minitest
require "webmock/minitest"
require "httpx/adapters/webmock"

# in rspec
require "webmock/rspec"
require "httpx/adapters/webmock"

# and now you're free for mocking
WebMock.enable!
stub_http_request(:get, "https://www.google.com").and_return(status: 200, body: "here's google")

```

Read more about it in the [webmock integration documentation](https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/wiki/Webmock-Adapter).

### Datadog Adapter

`httpx` ships with integration for [ddtrace, datadog's official tracing client](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb). You just need to initialize it the following way:

```ruby
require "ddtrace"
require "httpx/adapters/datadog"

Datadog.configure do |c|
  c.use :httpx
end
```

A trace will be emitted for every request, so this should be an interesting visualization if concurrent requests are sent.

Customization options and traces are similar to what [the net-http adapter provides](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby/#nethttp).

Read more about it in the [datadog integration documentation](https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/wiki/Datadog-Adapter).

## Improvements

### Own multipart request encoder

`httpx` now ships with its own multipart formdata encoder, and does not rely on `http-form_data` anymore:

```ruby
HTTPX.plugin(:multipart).post(uri, form: {file: File.new("path/to/file")})
```

Read more about it in the [multipart plugin documentation](https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/wiki/Multipart-Uploads), including also about why this was made.

### Expect Plugin

The `:expect` plugin now works reliably when the server does not support the `expect: 100-continue` header, i.e. it'll upload the body after a certain timeout. Building onn that, two behaviours are now implemented:

* A cache of domains which did not respond to the `expect` header is now kept, so that subsequent requests can skip the timeout and immediately upload the payload.
* If the "100 Continue" response arrives **after** the timeout expired and the body has been uploaded, the domain is removed from the cache, and subsequent requests will send the `expect` header.

### SNI/Host options

Some extension of the API was applied in order to support custom TLS negotiation parameters. You can now pass `:hostname` under the `:ssl` options, and this will be used for the SNI part of the TLS negotiation. This is useful in scenarios where a proxy certificate doesn't apply for the host one wants to send the request to:

```ruby
response = session.get(proxy_ip, headers: { "host" => upstream_hostname }, ssl: { hostname: sni_hostname }
```

## Bugfixes

A default 5 second timeout is in-place when using the DNS `:system` resolver, as it was found out that. when using the `resolv` library, the DNS query will not be retried otherwise. You can change this setting py passing `resolver_options: { timeouts: ANOTHER_TIMEOUT}`. In the future, this may become another timeout option, however.
