# 0.22.3

## Features

### HTTPX::Response::Body#filename

A new method, `.filename` can be called on response bodies, to get the filename referenced by the server for the received payload (usually in the "Content-Disposition" header).

```ruby
response = HTTPX.get(url)
response.raise_for_status
filename = response.body.filename
# you can do, for example:
response.body.copy_to("/home/files/#{filename}")
```

## Improvements

### Loading integrations by default

Integrations will be loaded by default, as long as the dependency being integrated is already available:

```ruby
require "ddtrace"
require "httpx"

HTTPX.get(... # request will be traced via the datadog integration
```

### Faraday: better error handling

The `faraday` adapter will not raise errors anymore, when used in parallel mode. This fixes the difference in behaviour with the equivalent `typhoeus` parallel adapter, which does not raise errors in such cases as well. This behaviour will exclude 4xx and 5xx HTTP responses, which will not be considered errors in the `faraday` adapter.

If errors occur in parallel mode, these'll be available in `env[:error]`. Users can check it in two ways:

```ruby
response.status == 0
# or
!response.env[:error].nil?
```

## Bugfixes

* unix socket: handle the error when the path for the unix sock is invalid, which was causing an endless loop.

### IPv6 / Happy eyeballs v2

* the `native` resolver will now use IPv6 nameservers with zone identifier to perform DNS queries. This bug was being ignored prior to ruby 3.1 due to some pre-filtering on the nameservere which were covering misuse of the `uri` dependency for this use case.
* Happy Eyeballs v2 handshake error on connection establishment for the first IP will now ignore it, in case an ongoing connecting for the second IP is happening. This fixes a case where both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are served for a given domain, but only one of them can be connected to (i.e. if connection via IPv6 fails, the IPv4 one should still proceed to completion).
* the `native` resolver won't try querying DNS name candidates, if the resolver sends an empty answer with an error code different from "domain not found".
* fix error of Happy Eyeballs v2 handshake, where the resulting connection would coalesce with an already open one for the same IP **before** requests were merged to the coalesced connection, resulting in no requests being sent and the client hanging.

## Chore

* fixed error message on wrong type of parameter for the `compression_threshold_size` option from the `:compression` plugin.