# 0.7.0


## Features

New option: `:max_requests`. This is a connection-level option signalizing how many requests can be performed on a connection. Although the HTTP/1 parser defined this well, in HTTP/2 this wasn't very clear, so: by definition, the remote MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS setting will be used to define it, unless the user explicitly passed the option. You can also pass `:max_requests => Float::INFINITY` if you know that the server allows more requests than that on a connection.

New plugin: `:expect`. 

Although there was support for `expect: 100-continue` header already when passed, this plugin can:

* automatically set the header on requests with body;
* execute the flow;
* recover from 417 status errors (i.e. try again without it);
* send body after X seconds if no 100 response came;

Suport for `with_` methods for the session. As long as the suffix is a valid attribute, it's just like that:

```ruby
HTTPX.with_timeout(...).with_date_of_birth(...)
```

## Improvements

### Connections

The following improvements make the `persistent` plugin way more resilient:

* Better balancing of HTTP/2 connections by distributing requests among X connections depending of how many requests they can process.
* Exhausted connections can off-load to a new same-origin connection (such as, when the server negotiates less `MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS` than what's expected).

### Timeouts

(Timeouts will be one of the main improvements from the 0.7.x series)

`:total_timeout` is now a connection-level directive, which means that this feature will actually make more sense and account for all requests in a block at the same time, instead of one-by-one.

### Options

Option setters were being bypassed, therefore a lot of the type-checks defined there weren't effectively being picked upon, which could have led to weird user errors.

## Bugfixes

* fixed the `push_promise` plugin integration (wasn't working well since `http-2-next` was adopted);