# 1.0.0

## Breaking changes

* the minimum supported ruby version is 2.7.0 .
* The default support for IDNA 2003 has been removed. If you require this feature, install the [idnx gem](https://github.com/HoneyryderChuck/idnx), which `httpx` automatically integrates with when available.
* `:total_timeout` option has been removed (no session-wide timeout supported, use `:request_timeout`).
* `:read_timeout` and `:write_timeout` are now set to 60 seconds by default, and preferred over `:operation_timeout`;
  * the exception being in the `:stream` plugin, as the response is theoretically endless (so `:read_timeout` is unset).
* The `:multipart` plugin is removed, as its functionality and API are now loaded by default.
* The `:compression` plugin is removed, as its functionality and API are now loaded by default.
  * `:compression_threshold_size` was removed (formats in `"content-encoding"` request header will always encode the request body).
  * the new `:compress_request_body` and `:decompress_response_body` can be set to `false` to (respectively) auto-compress passed input body, or decompress the response body.

### plugins

* `:authentication` plugin becomes `:auth`.
  * `.authentication` helper becomes `.authorization`.
* `:basic_authentication` plugin becomes `:basic_auth`.
  * `:basic_authentication` helper is removed.
* `:digest_authentication` plugin becomes `:digest_auth`.
  * `:digest_authentication` helper is removed.
* `:ntlm_authentication` plugin becomes `:ntlm_auth`.
  * `:ntlm_authentication` helper is removed.
* OAuth plugin: `:oauth_authentication` helper is rename to `:oauth_auth`.
* `:compression/brotli` plugin becomes `:brotli`.

### Support removed for deprecated APIs

* The deprecated `HTTPX::Client` constant lookup has been removed (use `HTTPX::Session` instead).
* The deprecated `HTTPX.timeout({...})` function has been removed (use `HTTPX.with(timeout: {...})` instead).
* The deprecated `HTTPX.headers({...})` function has been removed (use `HTTPX.with(headers: {...})` instead).
* The deprecated `HTTPX.plugins(...)` function has been removed (use `HTTPX.plugin(...).plugin(...)...` instead).
* The deprecated `:transport_options` option, which was only valid for UNIX connections, has been removed (use `:addresses` instead).
* The deprecated `def_option(...)` function, previously used to define additional options in plugins, has been removed (use `def option_$new_option)` instead).
* The deprecated `:loop_timeout` timeout option has been removed.
* `:stream` plugin: the deprecated `HTTPX::InstanceMethods::StreamResponse` has been removed (use `HTTPX::StreamResponse` instead).
* The deprecated usage of symbols to indicate HTTP verbs (i.e. `HTTPX.request(:get, ...)` or `HTTPX.build_request(:get, ...)`) is not supported anymore (use the upcase string always, i.e. `HTTPX.request("GET", ...)` or `HTTPX.build_request("GET", ...)`, instead).
* The deprecated `HTTPX::ErrorResponse#status` method has been removed (use `HTTPX::ErrorResponse#error` instead).

### dependencies

* `:datadog` adapter only supports `ddtrace` gem 1.x or higher.
* `:faraday` adapter only supports `faraday` gem 1.x or higher.

### chore

* `:grpc` plugin: connection won't buffer requests before HTTP/2 handshake is commpleted, i.e. works the same as plain `httpx` HTTP/2 connection establishment.
  * if you are relying on this, you can keep the old behavior this way: `HTTPX.plugin(:grpc, http2_settings: { wait_for_handshake: false })`.
