# 1.1.0

## Features

A function, `#peer_address`, was added to the response object, which returns the IP (either a string or an `IPAddr` object) from the socket used to get the response from.

```ruby
response = HTTPX.get("https://example.com")
response.peer_address #=> #<IPAddr: IPv4:93.184.216.34/255.255.255.255>
```

error responses will also expose an IP address via `#peer_address` as long a connection happened before the error.

## Improvements

* A performance regression involving the new default timeouts has been fixed, which could cause significant overhead in "multiple requests in sequence" scenarios, and was clearly visible in benchmarks.
  * this regression will still be seen in jruby due to a bug, which fix will be released in jruby 9.4.5.0.
* HTTP/1.1 connections are now set to handle as many requests as they can by default (instead of the past default of max 200, at which point they'd be recycled).
* tolerate the inexistence of `openssl` in the installed ruby, like `net-http` does.
* `on_connection_opened` and `on_connection_closed` will yield the `OpenSSL::SSL::SSLSocket` instance for `https` backed origins (instead of always the `Socket` instance).

## Bugfixes

* when using the `:native` resolver (default option), a default of 1 for ndots is set, for systems which do not set one.
* replaced usage of `Float::INFINITY` with `nil` for timeout defaults, as the former can't be used in IO wait functions.
* `faraday` adapter timeout setup now maps to `:read_timeout` and `:write_timeout` options from `httpx`.
* fixed HTTP/1.1 connection recycling on number of max requests exhausted.
* `response.json` will now work when "content-type" header is set to "application/hal+json".

## Chore

* when using the `:cookies` plugin, a warning message to install the idnx message will only be emitted if the cookie domain is an IDN (this message was being shown all the time since v1 release).