README.md, before:

# HTTPX: A Ruby HTTP library for tomorrow... and beyond!

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/httpx.svg)](http://rubygems.org/gems/httpx)
[![pipeline status](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/pipelines?page=1&scope=all&ref=master)
[![coverage report](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/badges/master/coverage.svg?job=coverage)](https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/coverage/#_AllFiles)

HTTPX is an HTTP client library for the Ruby programming language.

Among its features, it supports:

* HTTP/2 and HTTP/1.x protocol versions
* Concurrent requests by default
* Simple and chainable API
* Proxy Support (HTTP(S), Socks4/4a/5)
* Simple Timeout System
* Lightweight by default (require what you need)

And also:

* Compression (gzip, deflate, brotli)
* Streaming Requests
* Authentication (Basic Auth, Digest Auth)
* Expect 100-continue
* Multipart Requests
* Cookies
* HTTP/2 Server Push
* H2C Upgrade
* Automatic follow redirects
* International Domain Names

## How

Here are some simple examples:

```ruby
HTTPX.get("https://nghttp2.org").to_s #=> "<!DOCT...."
```

And that's the simplest one there is.

If you want to do some more things with the response, you can get an `HTTPX::Response`:

```ruby
response = HTTPX.get("https://nghttp2.org")
puts response.status #=> 200
body = response.body
puts body #=> #<HTTPX::Response ...
``` 

You can also send as many requests as you want simultaneously:

```ruby
page1, page2, page3 = HTTPX.get("https://news.ycombinator.com/news", "https://news.ycombinator.com/news?p=2", "https://news.ycombinator.com/news?p=3")
```

## Installation

Add this line to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "httpx"
```

or install it in your system:

```
> gem install httpx
```

and then just require it in your program:

```ruby
require "httpx"
```

## Why Should I care?

In Ruby, HTTP client implementations are a known cheap commodity. Why this one?

### Concurrency

This library supports HTTP/2 seamlessly (which means, if the request is secure, and the server support ALPN negotiation AND HTTP/2, the request will be made through HTTP/2). If you pass multiple URIs, and they can utilize the same connection, they will run concurrently in it. 

However if the server supports HTTP/1.1, it will try to use HTTP pipelining, falling back to 1 request at a time if the server doesn't support it (if the server support Keep-Alive connections, it will reuse the same connection).

### Clean API

`httpx` builds all functions around the `HTTPX` module, so that all calls can compose of each other. Here are a few examples:

```ruby
response = HTTPX.get("https://www.google.com")
response = HTTPX.post("https://www.nghttp2.org/httpbin/post", params: {name: "John", age: "22"})
response = HTTPX.plugin(:basic_authentication)
                .basic_authentication("user", "pass")
                .get("https://www.google.com")
```

### Lightweight

It ships with a plugin system similar to the ones used by [sequel](https://github.com/jeremyevans/sequel), [roda](https://github.com/jeremyevans/roda) or [shrine](https://github.com/janko-m/shrine).

It means that it loads the bare minimum to perform requests, and the user has to explicitly load the plugins, in order to get the features he/she needs.

It also means that it ships with the minimum amount of dependencies.

### DNS-over-HTTPS

`HTTPX` ships with custom DNS resolver implementations, including a DNS-over-HTTPS resolver.

## Easy to test

The test suite runs against [httpbin proxied over nghttp2](https://nghttp2.org/httpbin/), so there are no mocking/stubbing false positives. The test suite uses [minitest](https://github.com/seattlerb/minitest), but its matchers usage is (almost) limited to `#assert` (`assert` is all you need).

## Supported Rubies

All Rubies greater or equal to 2.1, and always latest JRuby.

**Note**: This gem is tested against all latest patch versions, i.e. if you're using 2.2.0 and you experience some issue, please test it against 2.2.10 (latest patch version of 2.2) before creating an issue.

## Resources
|               |                                                     |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Website       | https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/            |
| Documentation | https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/rdoc/       |
| Wiki          | https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/wikis/home |
| CI            | https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/pipelines  |

## Caveats

### ALPN support

`HTTPS` TLS backend is ruby's own `openssl` gem.

If your requirement is to run requests over HTTP/2 and TLS, make sure you run a version of the gem which compiles OpenSSL 1.0.2 (Ruby 2.3 and higher are guaranteed to).

JRuby's `openssl` is based on Bouncy Castle, which is massively outdated and still doesn't implement ALPN. So HTTP/2 over TLS/ALPN negotiation is off until JRuby figures this out.

### Known bugs

Doesn't work with ruby 2.4.0 for Windows (see [#36](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/issues/36)).

## Contributing

* Discuss your contribution in an issue
* Fork it
* Make your changes, add some tests
* Ensure all tests pass (`bundle exec rake test`)
* Open a Merge Request (that's Pull Request in Github-ish)
* Wait for feedback

Commit message:

added link to wiki regarding jruby in the readme

README.md, after:

# HTTPX: A Ruby HTTP library for tomorrow... and beyond!

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/httpx.svg)](http://rubygems.org/gems/httpx)
[![pipeline status](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/pipelines?page=1&scope=all&ref=master)
[![coverage report](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/badges/master/coverage.svg?job=coverage)](https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/coverage/#_AllFiles)

HTTPX is an HTTP client library for the Ruby programming language.

Among its features, it supports:

* HTTP/2 and HTTP/1.x protocol versions
* Concurrent requests by default
* Simple and chainable API
* Proxy Support (HTTP(S), Socks4/4a/5)
* Simple Timeout System
* Lightweight by default (require what you need)

And also:

* Compression (gzip, deflate, brotli)
* Streaming Requests
* Authentication (Basic Auth, Digest Auth)
* Expect 100-continue
* Multipart Requests
* Cookies
* HTTP/2 Server Push
* H2C Upgrade
* Automatic follow redirects
* International Domain Names

## How

Here are some simple examples:

```ruby
HTTPX.get("https://nghttp2.org").to_s #=> "<!DOCT...."
```

And that's the simplest one there is.

If you want to do some more things with the response, you can get an `HTTPX::Response`:

```ruby
response = HTTPX.get("https://nghttp2.org")
puts response.status #=> 200
body = response.body
puts body #=> #<HTTPX::Response ...
``` 

You can also send as many requests as you want simultaneously:

```ruby
page1, page2, page3 = HTTPX.get("https://news.ycombinator.com/news", "https://news.ycombinator.com/news?p=2", "https://news.ycombinator.com/news?p=3")
```

## Installation

Add this line to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "httpx"
```

or install it in your system:

```
> gem install httpx
```

and then just require it in your program:

```ruby
require "httpx"
```

## Why Should I care?

In Ruby, HTTP client implementations are a known cheap commodity. Why this one?

### Concurrency

This library supports HTTP/2 seamlessly (which means, if the request is secure, and the server support ALPN negotiation AND HTTP/2, the request will be made through HTTP/2). If you pass multiple URIs, and they can utilize the same connection, they will run concurrently in it. 

However if the server supports HTTP/1.1, it will try to use HTTP pipelining, falling back to 1 request at a time if the server doesn't support it (if the server support Keep-Alive connections, it will reuse the same connection).

### Clean API

`httpx` builds all functions around the `HTTPX` module, so that all calls can compose of each other. Here are a few examples:

```ruby
response = HTTPX.get("https://www.google.com")
response = HTTPX.post("https://www.nghttp2.org/httpbin/post", params: {name: "John", age: "22"})
response = HTTPX.plugin(:basic_authentication)
                .basic_authentication("user", "pass")
                .get("https://www.google.com")
```

### Lightweight

It ships with a plugin system similar to the ones used by [sequel](https://github.com/jeremyevans/sequel), [roda](https://github.com/jeremyevans/roda) or [shrine](https://github.com/janko-m/shrine).

It means that it loads the bare minimum to perform requests, and the user has to explicitly load the plugins, in order to get the features he/she needs.

It also means that it ships with the minimum amount of dependencies.

### DNS-over-HTTPS

`HTTPX` ships with custom DNS resolver implementations, including a DNS-over-HTTPS resolver.

## Easy to test

The test suite runs against [httpbin proxied over nghttp2](https://nghttp2.org/httpbin/), so there are no mocking/stubbing false positives. The test suite uses [minitest](https://github.com/seattlerb/minitest), but its matchers usage is (almost) limited to `#assert` (`assert` is all you need).

## Supported Rubies

All Rubies greater or equal to 2.1, and always latest JRuby.

**Note**: This gem is tested against all latest patch versions, i.e. if you're using 2.2.0 and you experience some issue, please test it against 2.2.10 (latest patch version of 2.2) before creating an issue.

## Resources
|               |                                                     |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Website       | https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/            |
| Documentation | https://honeyryderchuck.gitlab.io/httpx/rdoc/       |
| Wiki          | https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/wikis/home |
| CI            | https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/pipelines  |

## Caveats

### ALPN support

`HTTPS` TLS backend is ruby's own `openssl` gem.

If your requirement is to run requests over HTTP/2 and TLS, make sure you run a version of the gem which compiles OpenSSL 1.0.2 (Ruby 2.3 and higher are guaranteed to).

In order to use HTTP/2 under JRuby, [check this link](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/-/wikis/JRuby-Truffleruby-Other-Rubies) to know what to do.

### Known bugs

Doesn't work with ruby 2.4.0 for Windows (see [#36](https://gitlab.com/honeyryderchuck/httpx/issues/36)).

## Contributing

* Discuss your contribution in an issue
* Fork it
* Make your changes, add some tests
* Ensure all tests pass (`bundle exec rake test`)
* Open a Merge Request (that's Pull Request in Github-ish)
* Wait for feedback
